so watch my lentils okay our water so as
you know lentils are like the
cornerstone of Indian food I mean India
has so many different regions and they
all have sort of lentils that they veer
towards so basically they've got like a
doll from the north and a doll from the
ACE and their dolls are live and they
all have their own flavors right so the
southern ends will have a lot of curry
leaves tamarind to sour North India will
have cumin seeds and tomatoes to sour
and sometimes our onions till I put the
turmeric in straight away uh-huh this is
a sweet East Indian down
Bengalis are known for using sugar in
their savory dishes so we'll leave it
for about 50 to 60 minutes just working
on a really low flame lentils have been
part of our diet since prehistoric times
they grow in pods like peas but he'll be
ground into flour and you can even
sprout them to eat with salads
[Music]
there are many different types of
lentils including chana dal for a doll
masoor dal and moong dal softer red
lentils go into soups but harder lentils
like the moon go well with lamb and
chicken
[Music]
it's no surprise then that for centuries
lentils have been the staple food of
India's vegetarians sir Lent is nice and
soft so we'll add our coriander Padre oh
yeah just one teaspoon and I'm gonna add
a bit of garam masala so those are our
spices sugar it smells good
two teaspoons they would add more this
is my compromise with the Bengalis and
now it's a mess all right
I'm heating up some ghee he is a
clarifier butter which has a higher
cooking temperature than most oils and
what we're doing now gonna heat the ghee
up yeah and then we'll give the dog a
turki
taco taco taco yeah okay tadka is when
you temper your spices in hot oil okay
that's nice warm okay so we need maybe
five carbon pods five cloves or five a
little bit of cinnamon yeah mustard
seeds cumin seeds wait to go ready whoa
and chili I'm surely ready no not really
are you putting them all in one place
yeah that's fine good fit all right I'll
start with my camera huge stock fish
that one first
I'm getting dizzy that looks great I'm
gonna add the coconut so just could be
toast that's let's just like you ever
heard of these this is like my sanity
right now yeah sorry
just your food isn't it starts kind of
Renaissance yeah in the pan and then
we'll cover it in you don't we do in
India
don't give me that we take the lentils
and we put it in the pan stick to the
pan but they pick up all the spice
residue we don't waste any flavor it's
not one little keep those papers in
there okay and when we're ready to eat
we'll just lift off the lid and be like
all these really fantastically heady
flavours coming up okay that's great
okay let's have a try okay thank you
you first that's great
these men goalies knew their stuff you
know what hmm
ah sweet this was gonna be really an
adventurous and you know just bitter
lentils but this is amazing